# Preflight: Assessment00 and Practice Problems

Yay! We're super excited that you'll be arriving soon! We have some
practice work before you take your first assessment. Read on!

## Practice Problems

You may have already done the practice problems for the second coding
challenge. If not, [check them out][practice-problems]. Assessment00
will ask you to solve four such problems in the time period of an
hour, so these are good practice. The practice problems are a little
harder than those on the assessment, because we want you to over-
rather than under-prepare :-)

[practice-problems]: ../coding-test-2/practice-problems

## Assessment00 Schedule

The Sunday three weeks before your cycle begins, we'll open the window
for taking the first assessment, assessment00. As with all our
assessments, **the exercise is timed (1hr)**. We'll send you a link to
a website, you can request the assessment through the link, at which
time we'll begin timing you.

You'll have **eight days to request and complete the assessment**;
we'll close the window at **12:01 AM Monday**. We want you to complete
it two weeks before class begins so you have time to further prepare
if necessary.

**Please do not share or discuss the practice problems with other
students until the course begins**. The assessment is for the
students' benefit; it is designed to let incoming students know
whether they are prepared for the class. In a sense, it cannot be
cheated; underprepared students who don't get help early hurt their
chances of completing the course successfuly.

The assessment mimics the practice problems: it consists of four
problems and their accompanying test specs. Your job is to get the
specs to "go green" and pass (just like with the practice problems).

**So dive into the practice problems and good luck!**

## Assessments Generally

Completing assessments successfuly is really important in providing
you feedback and helping you to track your progress through the
course. They are meant to help by letting you know how you are
performing in the course.

**Assessments are very important; students are required to pass
them**. We want everyone to be successful here, but we also don't want
a student to be fall behind to the point where the course is no longer
helping them. If the program is not working for a student or they get
to the point where they can't pair with other students, we do want
them to find another environment where they will be successful.

For that reason, students who fail an assessment will need to make up
the work to keep up with the rest of the class. Students who fail two
assessments will be asked to leave the program.

Ideally you will all ace the first assessment. **However, if a student
does very poorly, we will probably want to talk with them about
whether they are prepared for the class**. The main thing is that we
don't want people to start out already behind; the class accelerates
quickly, so we really want everyone to be properly prepared.
